Alright we are going to take a look at
a demonstration of the Spring bean life
cycle
just to recap some of the life cycle, what's
going to happen is bean's going to get
Instantiated, Properties are going to get
set and then the BeanNameAware
interface will get called, the
BeanFactory interface would get called, the
Application Context will get called and
then a PreOnitialization via BeanPostProcessors will get called and then
we'll get into the afterPropertiesSet of
Initializing Beans, Custom Init Method
and then initialization of the PostInitialization using again BeanPostProcessors
then the Bean is Ready to
Use and then we also have destruction
where the Container Shutting Down, the
Disposable Bean interface will get
called, the destroy method there and
then the Custom Destroy Method and
then that the bean will be terminated.
Now I have a class that setup here,
toggle over to IntelliJ and show you
that and what we had to do is implement
InitializingBean, DisposableBean,
BeanNameAware, BeanFactoryAware
and ApplicationContextAware. So the
InitializingBean is, that's going
to be working with the startup and then
the aware interfaces are going to get
called as well and just had to implement
a couple methods there and all I have is
a series of system outline or system
output statements to put out messages
there and this will run, this will start
up and put out the messages. I don't
think I have to go through each one of
these, the overriding methods you can see
there on line 24 to 47 these are the
different interfaces that we're
implementing that Spring will detect has
been implemented and we'll call those
methods. And then we have the two
annotations, the PostConstruct and PreDestroy.
Those are the two annotations we
can use to annotate methods to get
called and I've got messages there
on line 54 and line 59 to output
with the annotated methods and then
finally on line 62 to 68 there
I have a beforeInit() and then afterInit() and those are the methods that are
going to get called by our our Bean Post
Processor so let's come in and take a
look at the CustomBeanPostProcessor
and this is a Spring component annotated
as a Component, so Spring will pick it up
and we implement the interface BeanPostProcessor
and what this is going to do
is it's going to get called for each
bean in the context and gives you a way
to work with these beans and you can do
whatever you need to to the bean in the
life cycle using this and all I'm doing
is saying if that bean is an instance of
our life cycle demo bean, I'm going to
call the beforeInit method to match
up with the BeforeInitialization and
then the afterInit method to match up
with the AfterInitialization so we can
run this it's going to run pretty quick
here and run this now and we'll take a
look at the output and you can see I'm
in the LifecycleBean Constructor, My
Bean Name is , Bean Factory has been set,
Application context has been set,
we're gonna toggle back over to keynote and you can see
that this is following along so we saw
the constructor method then setting
properties in this example but the Aware
interfaces get called then the PostBeanProcessor gets called so we can see
these messages here and where
as Called by the Bean Post Processor, The
Post Construct method so that they match
up to the annotated method and then the
Life cycle properties has been set and
then the After init, so you can see all
these messages are tying up with the
demo class and this is as the whole
Spring context is going through its life
cycle and then we can see we have our
dependency injection messages from the
beans that we were working with before
and just as a visual, I'm putting a
double hashtag in front of the messages
from our life cycle bean so these
instructor here that was from our
dependency injection before and then
down at the very bottom we can see that
we start getting some chatter in the
logs about Spring cleaning up and we can
see right here where two termination
methods get called so the Post Processor
doesn't do anything in termination but
the Predestroy gets called and the Predestroy
and then I'm sorry the
DisposableBean method gets called. So a
pretty handy little life cycle you can see that
it runs pretty quick and I am going to
check this into github under the branch
bean life cycle if you want to check
this out and experiment with some of the
Spring lifecycle stuff and you're more
than welcome to do so.